osdocs15191: ContentX - Improving "Understanding networking" chapter (#96874)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-understanding-networking-managing-traffic-entering-leaving.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/understanding-networking.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-understanding-networking-managing-traffic-entering-leaving_{context}"]
= Managing traffic entering and leaving the cluster

You need a way for external users to access your applications and for your applications to securely access external services. {product-title} provides several tools to manage this flow of traffic into and out of your cluster.

> == Exposing applications with Ingress and Routes

Reviewer: This was always weird, is it a proper noun or not. We'd adopted

`Ingress` objects
`Ingress` CR

Same for `Route` objects.

> == Exposing applications with Ingress and Route objects

Reviewer 2: All titles and section headings must have an anchor ID.

OCP docs guidelines: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#anchoring-titles-and-section-headings

To allow external traffic to reach services inside your cluster, you use an Ingress Controller. This component acts as the front door that directs incoming requests to the correct application. You define the traffic rules using one of two primary resources:

* Ingress: The standard Kubernetes resource for managing external access to services, typically for HTTP and HTTPS traffic.

> * Route: A resource that provides the same functionality as Ingress but includes additional features like more advanced TLS termination options and traffic splitting. Routes are specific to {product-title}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Route` object: A resource that provides the same functionality as Ingress but includes additional features like more advanced TLS termination options and traffic splitting. `Route` objects are specific to {product-title}.
```

Or maybe custom resource (CR).

> == Distributing traffic with Load Balancers

Reviewer 2: All titles and section headings must have an anchor ID.

OCP docs guidelines: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#anchoring-titles-and-section-headings

Also, unless you have a specific reason to capitalize "Load Balancer" in this section, it does not need to be capitalized.

> A Load Balancer provides a single, highly available IP address for directing traffic to your cluster. It typically runs outside the cluster on a cloud provider or using MetalLB for bare metal and distributes incoming requests across multiple nodes that are running the Ingress Controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Load Balancer provides a single, highly available IP address for directing traffic to your cluster. It typically runs outside the cluster on a cloud provider or using MetalLB on bare metal infrastructure and distributes incoming requests across multiple nodes that are running the Ingress Controller.
```

This prevents any single node from becoming a bottleneck or a point of failure to ensure that your applications remain accessible.

> == Controlling Egress traffic

Reviewer 2: All titles and section headings must have an anchor ID.

OCP docs guidelines: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#anchoring-titles-and-section-headings

Egress refers to outbound traffic that originates from a pod inside the cluster and is destined for an external system. {product-title} provides several mechanisms to manage this:

> * Egress IP: You can assign a specific, predictable source IP address to all outbound traffic from a given project. This is useful when you need to access an external service like a database that has a firewall requiring you to allow specific source IPs.

Reviewer: Always been referred to, somewhat confusingly, as _EgressIP_ or _EgressIPs_, single word.
